README.md, before:

# `ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` for Flutter

This Flutter package provides an extremely simple state management system for Flutter, particularly for use with widgets whose state may change in reaction to an event handler like `onTap`.

`ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` is more or less a merger of the classes `ValueNotifier` and `ValueListenableBuilder` into one class, which manages the lifecycle of the `ValueNotifier` for you.

`ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` allows you to avoid having to create a new `StatefulWidget` class every time you need to have the display of the widget respond to a simple state change. This allows you to set up stateful behavior even inside a `StatelessWidget`, which can dramatically simplify your widget code.

Only one state value can be managed per widget, but that covers a wide array of usecases.

## Usage

### Wrapping state-dependent widgets

Many Flutter widgets (checkboxes, radio buttons, switches) have to be wrapped in a `StatefulWidget` to track their selected state. `ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` dramatically simplifies this.

**Before:**

```dart
class SwitchWidget extends StatefulWidget {
  const SwitchWidget({super.key});

  @override
  State<SwitchWidget> createState() => _SwitchWidgetState();
}

class _SwitchWidgetState extends State<SwitchWidget> {
  bool switchedOn = false;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Switch(
      value: switchedOn,
      onChanged: (bool value) => setState(() => switchedOn = value),
    );
  }
}
```

**After:**

```dart
ValueNotifierStatefulWidget(
  initialValue: false,
  builder: (context, switchedOn) => Switch(
    value: switchedOn.value,
    onChanged: (bool value) => switchedOn.value = value,
  ),
)
```

### Making state changes after async gaps

```dart
ValueNotifierStatefulWidget<bool>(
  initialValue: false,
  builder: (BuildContext context, ValueNotifier<bool> isLoading) =>
    ElevatedButton.icon(
      style: ElevatedButton.styleFrom(
        backgroundColor: Colors.blue,
        foregroundColor: Colors.white,
        disabledBackgroundColor: Colors.blue.shade200,
        disabledForegroundColor: Colors.white,
      ),
      // Button icon: when loading, show a spinner, otherwise show a
      // checkbox icon
      icon: isLoading.value
          ? const SizedBox(
              width: 15,
              height: 15,
              child: CircularProgressIndicator(
                color: Colors.white,
                strokeWidth: 2.5,
              ),
            )
          : const Icon(
              Icons.check,
              color: Colors.white,
            ),
      // Button text
      label: const Text(
        'Submit',
        style: TextStyle(fontSize: 15),
      ),
      // Disable the button when loading
      onPressed: isLoading.value
          ? null
          : () async {
              try {
                // Set loading state to true
                isLoading.value = true;
                // Call asynchronous function
                await doSomethingAsynchronously();
              } finally {
                // Set loading state to false (done inside a finally
                // block in case the async function throws an error)
                isLoading.value = false;
              }
            },
    ),
);
```

## `safeSetState`

This library also exposes `safeSetState` as an extension on `State`, which allows you to call `setState` anytime, including after awaiting an async function in a handler callback, without running into problems with the widget no longer being mounted. `safeSetState` is called when the `ValueNotifier`'s value changes, which is important for making state updates in asynchronous functions, as shown above.

```dart
extension SafeUpdateState on State {
  void safeSetState(void Function() updaterFunction) {
    void callSetState() {
      // Can only call setState if mounted
      if (mounted) {
        // ignore: invalid_use_of_protected_member
        setState(updaterFunction);
      }
    }
    if (SchedulerBinding.instance.schedulerPhase == SchedulerPhase.persistentCallbacks) {
      // Currently building, can't call setState -- add post-frame callback
      SchedulerBinding.instance.addPostFrameCallback((_) => callSetState());
    } else {
      callSetState();
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Allow a valueNotifier parameter to be passed in to constructor

README.md, after:

# `ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` for Flutter

This Flutter package provides an extremely simple state management system for Flutter, particularly for use with widgets whose state may change in reaction to an event handler like `onTap`.

`ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` is more or less a merger of the classes `ValueNotifier` and `ValueListenableBuilder` into one class, which manages the lifecycle of the `ValueNotifier` for you.

`ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` allows you to avoid having to create a new `StatefulWidget` class every time you need to have the display of the widget respond to a simple state change. This allows you to set up stateful behavior even inside a `StatelessWidget`, which can dramatically simplify your widget code.

Only one state value can be managed per widget, but that covers a wide array of usecases.

## Usage

### Wrapping state-dependent widgets

Many Flutter widgets (checkboxes, radio buttons, switches) have to be wrapped in a `StatefulWidget` to track their selected state. `ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` dramatically simplifies this.

**Before:**

```dart
class SwitchWidget extends StatefulWidget {
  const SwitchWidget({super.key});

  @override
  State<SwitchWidget> createState() => _SwitchWidgetState();
}

class _SwitchWidgetState extends State<SwitchWidget> {
  bool switchedOn = false;

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    return Switch(
      value: switchedOn,
      onChanged: (bool value) => setState(() => switchedOn = value),
    );
  }
}
```

**After:**

```dart
ValueNotifierStatefulWidget(
  initialValue: false,
  builder: (context, switchedOn) => Switch(
    value: switchedOn.value,
    onChanged: (bool value) => switchedOn.value = value,
  ),
)
```

### Making state changes after async gaps

```dart
ValueNotifierStatefulWidget<bool>(
  initialValue: false,
  builder: (BuildContext context, ValueNotifier<bool> isLoading) =>
    ElevatedButton.icon(
      style: ElevatedButton.styleFrom(
        backgroundColor: Colors.blue,
        foregroundColor: Colors.white,
        disabledBackgroundColor: Colors.blue.shade200,
        disabledForegroundColor: Colors.white,
      ),
      // Button icon: when loading, show a spinner, otherwise show a
      // checkbox icon
      icon: isLoading.value
          ? const SizedBox(
              width: 15,
              height: 15,
              child: CircularProgressIndicator(
                color: Colors.white,
                strokeWidth: 2.5,
              ),
            )
          : const Icon(
              Icons.check,
              color: Colors.white,
            ),
      // Button text
      label: const Text(
        'Submit',
        style: TextStyle(fontSize: 15),
      ),
      // Disable the button when loading
      onPressed: isLoading.value
          ? null
          : () async {
              try {
                // Set loading state to true
                isLoading.value = true;
                // Call asynchronous function
                await doSomethingAsynchronously();
              } finally {
                // Set loading state to false (done inside a finally
                // block in case the async function throws an error)
                isLoading.value = false;
              }
            },
    ),
);
```

### Passing in your own `ValueNotifier`

The `ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` constructor can take a `valueNotifier` parameter, where you pass in your own `ValueNotifier<T>`, which allows the state to be managed externally. This effectively makes `ValueNotifierStatefulWidget` work similarly to `ValueListenableBuilder`.

## `safeSetState`

This library also exposes `safeSetState` as an extension on `State`, which allows you to call `setState` anytime, including after awaiting an async function in a handler callback, without running into problems with the widget no longer being mounted. `safeSetState` is called when the `ValueNotifier`'s value changes, which is important for making state updates in asynchronous functions, as shown above.

```dart
extension SafeUpdateState on State {
  void safeSetState(void Function() updaterFunction) {
    void callSetState() {
      // Can only call setState if mounted
      if (mounted) {
        // ignore: invalid_use_of_protected_member
        setState(updaterFunction);
      }
    }
    if (SchedulerBinding.instance.schedulerPhase == SchedulerPhase.persistentCallbacks) {
      // Currently building, can't call setState -- add post-frame callback
      SchedulerBinding.instance.addPostFrameCallback((_) => callSetState());
    } else {
      callSetState();
    }
  }
}
```
